PSA Singapore (PSA) has announced a strategic expansion of its Jurong Island Terminal (JIT) to 
meet growing demand for sustainable, efficient and resilient supply chain solutions from industries 
based on Jurong Island.
Located on the northwestern seafront of Jurong Island, JIT offers twice-daily barge sailings that 
connect beneficial cargo owners (BCOs) on Jurong Island with PSA’s main hubs at Tuas, Pasir 
Panjang and Brani, from where they can leverage Singapore’s connectivity for unparalleled access 
to global markets.
Jurong Island is the nucleus of Singapore’s Energy and Chemicals sector. Managed by JTC, it spans 
3,000 hectares and hosts more than 100 global companies carrying out refining, olefins production 
and chemical manufacturing operations. 
While containerised raw materials and finished products can be trucked to and from Jurong Island 
by road, barging is less labour intensive, does not contribute to road congestion, and generates
about 30% less carbon emissions.
Demand for barging has grown steadily in recent years, with JIT volumes recording year-on-year 
growth of 13% in 2023 to reach a record-breaking 149,000 twenty-foot equivalent units of containers 
(TEU).
In partnership with JTC, PSA will expand JIT to increase its annual handling capacity to 300,000 
TEUs to cater to projected demand. New Dangerous Goods (DG) handling and cargo transloading
facilities will also be developed to complement PSA’s growing suite of physical and digital solutions
designed to help BCOs manage their inventories and supply chains more efficiently.
To be completed by 2025, the expansion of JIT will also support Jurong Island’s transformation into 
a sustainable Energy and Chemicals park, in line with the Singapore Green Plan 2030.
A commemorative event, attended by key stakeholders and partners, was held at PSA’s corporate 
office, PSA Horizons, today.
Mr Nelson Quek, Regional CEO Southeast Asia, PSA International, said, “The port has always been 
a gateway and enabler for other pillars of Singapore’s economy, offering reliable, resilient and 
competitive access to global sources and markets. The collaboration between PSA and JTC to 
expand JIT ensures that current and future enterprises in Singapore’s Energy and Chemicals sector
will continue to reap these benefits in the years ahead, and do so in more sustainable ways.”

Mr Alvin Tan, ACEO, JTC, said, “Barging volumes on Jurong Island are set to rise with increasing 
demand for sustainable logistics. JIT’s expansion is poised to meet this growth, and collaboration 
with partners like PSA is key in our journey to make Jurong Island a sustainable Energy and 
Chemicals park.”
