Mersin International Port celebrates milestone of handling over 25 million containers
On March 27, 2024, Mersin International Port (MIP), Turkey's leading container terminal, 
commemorated a significant achievement of handling more than 25 million Twenty-foot Equivalent 
Units (TEU) since its inception in 2007. Marking this milestone, MIP hosted a grand celebration at the 
East Med Hub 1 Terminal in Mersin, attended by partners, customers, government representatives, 
and industry associations. 
MIP was initially established in 2007 as a joint venture between PSA International and Akfen, and in 
2017, IFM Investors joined as a third shareholder. Since its establishment, the container volumes
handled have on average grown 14.4 percent per year and in 2023 alone, MIP handled approximately 
2 million TEUs. This continuous growth was made possible with a strategic investment to expand and 
upgrade its facilities and equipment. 
To meet the evolving needs of its customers, MIP will continue to future-proof its container business
by increasing its handling capacity through its USD 455 million East Med Hub 2 (EMH2) expansion 
project. In November 2023, MIP started construction of the second phase of EMH2, which when
completed in the first quarter of 2025, will extend the quay by 380 metres to a total length of 880 
metres, with a draft of 17,5 metres. This will allow two Ultra Large Container Vessels (ULCVs) of over 
400 metres to berth at the same time and increase the port’s capacity from 2.6 to 3.6 million TEUs. 
The project also includes the purchase of eight new automated rail mounted gantry cranes (aRMGs) 
and four additional ship-to-shore cranes. It will also create 500 direct and 5,000 indirect employment 
opportunities. 
At the same time, MIP remains committed to reducing its carbon footprint. By continuously investing 
in electrically-powered equipment and renewable energy sources, MIP plans to cut its carbon 
emissions in half by 2030 and be net zero by 2050. 
Ajay Kumar Singh, MIP’s General Manager, believes the terminal’s future is looking bright: “I want to 
express my heartfelt thanks to all MIP employees for their outstanding contribution in reaching the 
25 million TEU milestone so quickly. In addition, I wish to extend my gratitude to all partners, clients 
and government officials who have been alongside MIP in the terminal's remarkable journey.”

About Mersin International Port Management Inc.
Mersin International Port Management Inc. (MIP), a joint venture between Akfen Holding and PSA 
International, took over T.C.D.D. Mersin Port Management for 36 years on 11 May 2007. In 2017, Mersin 
International Port (MIP), whose shareholders include the Australian Fund Company IFM, is connected by rail 
and road to Turkey industrialized cities such as Ankara, Gaziantep, Kayseri, Kahramanmaraş, Konya, as well as 
bordering countries such as Syria, Iraq and the Commonwealth of Independent States. It is one of the main 
container ports in the Mediterranean Region, with transshipment and hinterland connections to the Middle 
East and the Black Sea. Mersin International Port (MIP) accounts for a significant portion of Türkiye import and 
export volume with its wide hinterland, accessible transport facilities and successful staff. With the total 
amount of cargo handled annually and the available area, MIP is the largest port in Türkiye.
About PSA International
PSA International (PSA) is a leading global port operator and trusted supply chain partner to cargo 
stakeholders. PSA’s ports and cargo solutions portfolio comprises over 60 deepsea, rail and inland 
terminals, across more than 170 locations in 44 countries – including two flagship port operations in 
Singapore and Belgium, as well as affiliated businesses in supply chain management, logistics, marine 
and digital services. Drawing on the deep expertise and experience from a diverse global team, PSA 
collaborates with its customers and partners to develop world-class port ecosystems and deliver 
innovative supply chain solutions to accelerate the shift towards sustainable trade. Visit us at 
www.globalpsa.com, or follow us on LinkedIn and Facebook (@globalpsa).
For media queries, please contact:
Sevda Onbaşlı
MIP Corporate Communication Manager
Tel: 0324 241 29 00 / 3379
GSM:0533 924 99 18
sonbasli@mersinport.com.tr